MYCELIUM — SURREY MUSHROOM SCOUT

1. Unzip this folder.
2. Open a terminal in the mycelium folder.
3. Run:

   python3 -m http.server 8080 --directory dist

   Windows alternative:
   py -m http.server 8080 --directory dist

4. Open http://localhost:8080 in your browser.

Do not double-click index.html. Geolocation and service workers need a
secure origin; localhost works for desktop testing.

The app opens around Guildford. You can use your location or search a UK
town. An internet connection is needed for live weather, local records,
and the first reference photo loads. Once loaded, the last report and
viewed photos can be used offline. Retained data shows its original fetch
time.

INSTALL / PHONE TESTING

For a phone, deploy the contents of dist/ to a static HTTPS host.
Plain http://your-computer-IP:8080 does not enable PWA or GPS features.
Android: browser menu > Install app / Add to home screen.
iPhone: Safari > Share > Add to Home Screen.

WHAT IS IN THIS FIRST VERSION

- Recent 14-day model weather history from Open-Meteo.
- Research-grade historical iNaturalist sightings within 30 km for the
  current calendar month, across all years.
- A broad UK habitat guide plus additional species from local records, photos, source
  links, seasons, and an explanation of each weather signal.
- Transparent exploratory scoring, not a calibrated fruiting model.
- A PWA manifest, app icons, service worker, and last-report storage.

KNOWN VERIFICATION LIMIT

JavaScript syntax, PWA packaging, weather validation and scoring logic
were checked locally. Remote session network requests stalled, so live
provider responses, image loading, browser installation, and deployment
were not verified. If a provider is unreachable, the app says so instead
of showing invented weather or sightings. This is a first version for
local testing, not an expert-validated mushroom forecasting service.

The app is for scouting and observation. Never use it to decide whether
a mushroom is safe to eat.

VERSION 3 — BROADER SPECIES COVERAGE

Local records now add species dynamically, even if they are not in the UK
guide. The app retrieves up to 3,000 taxa and displays all species-level
results using Show more. Historical sightings are not proof of a current
flush. Species without guide ecology show habitat as unknown and receive
no weather score. Expanded guide notes have not been independently
source-checked or expert-validated.

Use the list selector to see seasonal candidates, local records only,
or the entire UK guide. Search by name and filter by habitat. The default
24-card display is only a page size, not a species coverage limit.

Replace the old dist folder with this one. Keep the same local server
address, reload while online, then reload once more if the old version
still appears so the updated service worker can take control.
